Hello everybody. Welcome to a new episode of the
Center. I'm your host as always Ricardo Lobs and
to them, joined by Doctor Michael Frank. He is
David and Lucille Packard, professor of Human Biology and
Director of the Symbolic Systems Program at Stanford University.
He studies children's language learning and how it interacts
with their developing understanding of the social world. And
today we're talking about topics like infant directed speech,
pragmatic abilities, similarity reasoning, some other aspects of language
learning, parenting, attitudes and related topics. So, Doctor Frank,
welcome to the show. It's a pleasure to everyone.
Uh Yeah. So let's get into the questions then.
Um WHAT is infant directed speech? And in what
ways does it differ from speech directed at adults?
So when we talk to babies, we talk in
a very specific way, our voices get kind of
high and squeaky. Uh WE tend to simplify what
we say and this is based on the age
of the baby we're talking to. But if we're
talking to a very young baby, you might hold
them in your arms and say, oh, aren't you
a nice baby? That would be profoundly weird to
do if you were talking to an adult. Um
So all of that simplification uh stretching out, making
more melodic. Uh ALL of that makes the speech
exciting and interesting to infants and seems to draw
their attention
and I is infant directed speech the same across
all cultures or does it vary, for example, in
form or in prevalence? Uh How does it work
exactly? I think Americans are maybe among the most
uh fond of really changing their speech to, to
infants. So uh American infant directed speech is the
most exaggerated in its characteristics. And there are other
cultures in Northern Europe that use much less uh
infant directed speech. So it was initially thought that
infant directed speech was completely universal. I I think
it's turned out to be quite variable. Um Nobody
talks to infants exactly the same way they talk
to adults. I I would say, but the degree
of exaggeration and change and the nature of that
change can vary across cultures.
And do we have any idea why there is
that variability? Where exactly does it stem from?
We're not sure where that variability comes from. Uh
But it likely intersects with cultural views on childhood
and parenthood and the ways that we think it's
appropriate to interact with kids. So in some cultures,
infants are really a a key focal point for
for discussion and conversation. We really focus in on
them. That's not just in the US and the
developed world there are some uh uh low and
middle income contexts. Uh There are even some traditional
societies where kids are really focal point and there
are other contexts where uh Children are not expected
to be talked to or heard from until they
become verbal themselves. So there's quite, quite wide variability
in our attitudes towards childhood. And that probably drives
the ways we uh culturally think about um expressing
ourselves the kind of register or mode of speech
that we use.
And does infant directed speech help Children or infants
in this case, learn a language easier because that's
a common idea out there. But is it true?
Yeah, I think there are two ways that people
have thought about infant directed speech helping. The first
way I think is almost certainly true, which is
that infant directed speech draws infants attention. So the
study that I was involved in that, that looked
at this is called uh many Babies one, it
was a giant collaborative project across many different labs
across many different countries. And what we did was
we looked at babies preference for infant directed speech.
And we found that across cultures, even when babies
were hearing speech in a language that they didn't
know they still like the infant directed version better.
So we found quite good evidence for uh widespread
cultural cross cultural consistency of infant directed speech preference.
Babies like to hear baby talk. Now, the second
way that infant directed speech could help is a
little bit more controversial. It might be that some
aspects of the structure are uniquely suited for learning.
So it might be that the ways we simplify
really help babies learn. And I think there's some
evidence for that and some evidence against. So we,
we maybe we make these exaggerated sounds like hi
baby. Uh Maybe we make the vowels a little
bit more distinct from one another. Some cultures. Yeah,
maybe, yes, maybe no. Uh THE evidence is, is
a little weaker for that. We do also simplify
the sentence structure and we talk about things that
are kind of in the here and now and
much more likely to be relevant to the baby.
And that aspect of infant directed speech probably does
help early language learning using kind of concrete restricted
vocabulary, makes it a lot easier to figure out
what words mean, especially when babies are starting to
be in that age where they're starting to understand
how language is connecting to the world around them.
So not, not that super tiny newborns, but maybe
6789 month olds, especially going into the first year
when they're starting to um really uh begin to
produce words around their first birthday.
And then in regards to some topics related to
language learning, what are, what are pragmatic abilities.
So when linguists talk about the structure of language,
they generally distinguish the sound levels that that's a
lot of what we were talking about when we
were talking about uh infant directed speech uh from
the, the lexicon and the morphology, the ways that
words are combined together in syntax, the semantics, the
meaning. And then we talk about pragmatics, which is
the communicative aspect of language, the ways that we
reason about what somebody is trying to tell us
in a particular context. So syntax, semantics, morphology are
often thought to be kind of more context independent.
But the ways we modulate language depending on the
context, depending on the speaker, depending on the prior
discourse. All of that is what we refer to
as pragmatics. Mhm
And what is similarity reasoning,
similarity reasoning? Uh Well, broadly speaking, we're talking about
now uh cognition rather than language. Here. We're talking
about the ways that we reason about the structure
of concepts and uh how different concepts relate to
one another. Uh So we've people in the uh
studying the structure of concepts, the structure of knowledge
have often used the idea of similarity as a
way in uh to studying the relationships between different
concepts.
Uh And do we know if it also varies
cross culturally?
Yeah, absolutely. So the ways that people conceptualize uh
the relationships between concepts is something that varies uh
quite a fair amount. Uh You know, just as
as a one example of a widely studied cross
cultural difference, there are differences between uh you know,
uh what's called taxonomic similarity uh similarity. Um IN
uh you know the type of uh concept versus
a thematic similarity, similarity in the sort of situations
that that concept occurs in. So that sounds very
abstract. A concrete example of this is um if
I uh ask you which is more similar dog
versus cat or dog versus bone, dog versus cat,
is that taxonomic level of similarity? Whereas dog versus
bone is thematic dog and bone go together in
situations, even though they're dissimilar in the kind of
concept they are one is animate, one is inanimate
and so forth. I and there's some evidence that
in different cultures, you get different levels of emphasis
on taxonomic structures versus thematic structures. Um So, uh
what are sometimes referred to as weird cultures, Western
educated, industrialized, rich democratic cultures uh tends to have
more of a focus on uh taxonomic structures. Uh
WHEREAS uh less weird context, which is of course
many different, it's not a category itself, it's a
non category, but many other cultures uh show more
interest in thematic reasoning. And this is something that's
been pretty well studied between the West and East
Asia. Uh AND also uh more traditional societies versus
more industrialized societies.
And do we have a good understanding of where
that variability comes from?
I I would say not completely. Uh So, yeah,
it's a pretty deep and interesting question like how
the structure of our concepts reflects our broader theories
of the world. My lab has done a little
bit of work on this. We're not specialists in
it. Uh But one thing we're interested in is
that reciprocal relationship between language and cognition that you
mentioned uh a little bit in your intro. So
we've been interested in whether uh the structure of
kind of linguistic input to kids and to adults
reflects those taxonomic and thematic uh relationships. And we,
we did find some initial evidence for it in
a paper last year. So when you look at
uh Chinese language corpora, they seem to uh show
more kind of um semantic similarity uh on the
uh thematic level. Whereas English language corporate maybe support
uh taxonomic reasoning a bit more. So that's doesn't
solve your chicken and egg question language to conception
or conception to language, probably both influence each other.
Uh But I, I think there's a suggestion that
these different cross cultural ways of conceptualizing the world
um really get reflected in language and maybe get
perpetuated as well in language.
Uh And the similarity reasoning connect in any way
to language or how people use language.
Yeah, I mean, I think uh similarity and especially
uh sameness identity uh have been really important lenses
by which cognitive science has looked at language cognition
development and how all of these things compare to
one another. So uh the idea of sameness especially
actually uh identity has been a really powerful lens
to look at how uh language enables complex cognition.
So uh there are some, you know, studies using
nonhuman animals and trying to train the concept of
exact identity and you, you can do this in
certain restricted cases. But uh for more complex tasks
using identity, it can be really true. Excuse me,
really tricky to train a even a a great
ape to do these tasks. Um In contrast, they're
actually quite easy for uh human adults to pick
up in just a couple of trials. So there's,
there's really kind of a big boundary there. And
people have hypothesized that language has something to do
with that. Uh So one example, uh uh the
speculation is that language trained primates seem to be
the only ones who can succeed in these kinds
of really complex identity and relational reasoning tasks about
um sameness. So yeah, the, the these general notions
but um similarity and identity have really structured our
conversation about how language connects to thought and how
that relates to uh you know, children's growing conception
when they learn a language and the boundaries between
uh nonhuman animals and uh and humans
do Children learn some words earlier than others. And
if so, why does that happen?
Yeah. So, so the words that kids learn earliest
tend to be things that are grounded in their
environment. Um So they refer mostly to the people
around them. Uh THE social routines they engage in
like high by bath time, peek a boo, uh
then the small objects and animals around them, dog
ball uh these kinds of things. So the earliest
learned words are those that are supported both by
the conception of the kids, the ways that they
understand the world and also by the input, they
get the language that they are hearing around them.
Uh And is this consistent in any way across
languages?
Surprisingly consistent? Actually, of course, the big feature of
uh words is that the words themselves, their forms
vary across languages. But uh what's surprising, I think
from my perspective, looking at cross cultural data is
that the actual concepts that kids learn early are
really quite related to one another. So one of
the big projects that my lab does is called
Word Bank. This is a site that offers up
a database of children's early words and uh parents
reports about their language more broadly to uh to
people around the world. And we host data from,
I think at this 0.30 or 40 languages uh
from around the world, of course, focused mostly on,
you know, uh the developed world and uh Indo
European languages, but increasingly broadening to some East Asian
languages and non indo-european languages um from other regions.
So when you look at these data, you can
look and ask, well, what are the 1st 10
words look like for kids around the world? And
it's really, I think, fascinating to see that kids
around the world like to talk about these social
routines and the routines aren't that different. I mean,
it's greeting people, it's saying goodbye to people. Um
It's the games we like to play with babies.
Uh It's the, you know, the routines that we
do with them as well as the people around
them. The kinship terms like mother, father, grandmother, sister,
brother. Uh AND, and then of course, like fun
small toys. Uh AND, and animals. So II I
mentioned that this is what we talk to kids
about that that's important and this is these are
things that kids can understand in their environment. One
other thing I should say is there's probably also
some degree of children's own interest that babies around
the world, like small animals, like balls and toys,
uh like interacting socially with the people around them.
And all of that is, is very important and
probably drives their early word learning.
And so before Children begin their formal education, when
they do it, because of course, it's not the
case that in all human societies, there's formal education
but uh in, in the societies where there is
formal education before Children begin it. Uh What sources
of information do they use to infer the meaning
of words?
The biggest one is the social interaction with the
people around them. So earliest words are typically learned
in what we call grounded social interaction that is
um you know, you can imagine a, a caregiver
and a child playing or talking about things that
are in the here and now around them. And
those uh that those learning instances are often accompanied
by social cues. Like um the uh parent is
sometimes pointing to the object or uh showing it
to the child with their hands, they might be
jointly holding it. Uh This creates what, what researchers
are referred to as joint attention where both the
child and the parent know or the caregiver know
that they're talking about the same thing. THEY establish
a context in which it's mutually known that we're
talking about this object. And then when they use
a word, that name could be mapped to that
object pretty effectively. Now, the prevalence of joint attention
across cultures and societies does differ. So uh the
character I'm giving here of, of, of this kind
of interaction is most frequent in the kind of
um very child focused interactions that you see in
the US and in Europe. Uh AND and as
a little bit less common in other societies where
learning from overhearing happens more where where the child
may be observing a an interaction between two peers
or between a a caregiver and an older child
and observe that same kind of ground and interaction.
But now as a third party rather than as
the uh the second person.
And so does uh language learning in Children interact
in any way with their understanding of the social
world? I mean, does one influence the other?
Well, I think of the social understanding and the
social motivation of Children as a really key driver
of language learning, it's kind of the engine that
drives that, that uh vehicle forward it. Uh So
the extent to which you care about and want
to affiliate with and want to share with other
people uh is really, you know, that that's the
extent to which you're really engaging with language and
using it and practicing it. And that, that's very
much the, the position that been advocated for by
Michael Thomasel O and his collaborators over the years.
So uh that said that engine gets increasingly more
sophisticated as you can use language to understand the
nature of the interactions that are happening. I I've
argued for a lot of continuity in social cognition
from uh very early on until uh you know,
kind of later in language development. So I think
even quite young infants have some sense of how
conversation works and how uh language functions to transfer
information between people. But there's some refinement that can
happen. Um One big debate that's happening in the
field right now and that I I'm uncertain about
the answer to is whether language plays a really
critical role in enabling uh reasoning about other people's
beliefs, either in allowing the discovery of that or
at least allowing you to represent other people's beliefs
sufficiently. Uh So I think in, in some sense,
the jury is still out about that, probably language
plays some role, maybe it's not a constitutive role.
But I, so, so that's one way in which
uh understanding language better could really help drive a
uh uh social cognitive ability in this case theory
of mind.
So I've asked you about some of the ways
that language acquisition varies cross culturally. But what do
we know about the universality of language acquisition? Are
there many human universals in this regard?
Universal? And the, the question of, of, of Invariant
here has been a one of the most controversial
topics in language acquisition and cognitive science more generally.
So it it's very complex to state something like
universal, especially when we have data, really, you know,
good rich data about a very small set of
the world's current languages and especially of the languages
that have ever existed. Maybe they're, you know, hundreds
of thousands of languages that have existed and maybe
uh you know, 8000 right now. And we have
really good data um about just a small handful,
a couple of dozen. And, and really most of
the studies have been concentrated in just AAA tiny
number. So it's tough to make strong claims about
universality. The way we talk about this with respect
to the data that I work on is about
relative consistency and variability of different aspects of language
learning. So that turns out I think a really
complex kind of black and white uh you know,
issue about um human nature as it's been framed
into a statistical question of how consistent a particular
phenomenon is across languages. And so when you use
that sort of statistical lens, you can quantify, OK,
in the sample we have with all of its
limitations. Uh Are there things that tend to be
relatively more consistent? And I would say yes, there
certainly are. So, one thing that's very consistent across
languages is uh how connected different aspects of language
are. So, uh when you go to the linguistics
department, like we were talking about, you've got, you
know, sounds and words and word parts and uh
connections between words, syntax and semantics and for meaning
and it sounds like those are really distinct modular
things. But one of the biggest generalizations from our
work is that when you go across cultures, no
matter what culture you're looking at, if you're good
at gesturing and communication, you're good at words. If
you've got a lot of words, you're good at
putting word parts together. And if you're good at
putting word parts together, you're good at creating sentences
so structured as a function of individual variability, there's
actually a lot of consistency in how tightly woven
the language system is that all of the different
parts connect to one another within individuals. That's just
an example of something that turns out to be
very consistent across languages. I'm not gonna call that
a universal. We don't have the sample diversity to,
to make that kind of claim, but it, it
is very striking to me that in the languages
we study, we really consistently see that.
Mhm. So changing topics, I would like to ask,
you know, a little bit about polite language. I
mean, how does it emerge and why do people
use it particularly if we take into account that
many times it implies making statements that are imprecise,
inefficient and even sometimes untrue.
Yeah, I love this. So we're going from the
question of universality to something that's clearly very, very
culturally specific and very culturally conditioned and, and really
fascinating for that reason. So politeness is this way
that we navigate the social world using language. I
in some sense, I, I like to think of
politeness as kind of the the expert level, you
know, the the God mode level of a theory
of mind, right? If you're good at theory of
mind, you, you're good at tracking other people's beliefs,
you're really good at theory of mind, you can
manage their expectations, you can manage their feelings, you
can manage your own self presentation uh and how
you appear through your use of language. So I
politeness, roughly speaking, I would say is, is the
set of ways we use language outside of the
goal of information transfer uh to manage our social
relationships and our, our presentation of ourselves. And so
this um this set of ideas comes from the
uh anthropological linguistics literature where they talk about the
use of language to manage face or appearance to
the community. Uh And it has a really long
tradition because the, the ways that we go about
managing face and using politeness differs so much from
culture to culture. I have worked on this topic
using a set of um ideas about pragmatics that
are related to the rational use of language. So
um my collaborators and I notably my longtime collaborator,
Noah Goodman and I have I proposed this model
of pragmatic language use called the rational speech Act
model. And the basic idea of that model is
that you use language to get information across in
a way that uh helps you be sure that
another person who's reasoning equally rationally about the language
used could figure out what you were trying to
say. Uh And so that's, that's fundamentally about information
transfer. And we started studying uh politeness because the
case where that model really fails. If you just
think about languages, information transfer, as you said, it's
very hard to figure out why you would say
these things that are long vague and precise, sometimes
even false. And our answer was, well, you sometimes
care about information transfer, but sometimes you care about
these other goals, like being nice or looking like
a person who's nice, uh respectful and so forth.
And uh if you think about the effort that
you spend to produce language as a cost, then
you're essentially paying that cost to signal that you're
a nice or uh respectful person. So the more
verbiage you use, the more you're kind of signaling,
hey, I respect you. I feel that it is
important that I show how much I respect you
by paying this cost. If I say open the
window, OK. That's the most direct information transfer about
my desires. But if I say, hey, I'm so
sorry to bother you and I know you're involved
in other things. But maybe if you have a
moment in the next few minutes, it would be
really great. If you could just manage to open
the window, it's like a caricature, right? I've spent
all this time to try to show how much
I care about your feelings, same information, but greater
cost. So I'm like kind of burning money here
to try to convince you that I care about
your, you know, your feelings and respect them.
But when you said at the beginning of your
answer that this is, this tends to be very
culture specific. What does that mean exactly? Uh uh
I mean, does it mean that what we consider
to be polite is culture specific or that across
cultures, there are varying degrees of politeness in language.
Uh So both I, I almost everything about this
particular cultural ritual varies. Um So in some cultures,
it is really critical to use this kind of
extra verbiage. Um And that can be both the
kind of unconventional or slightly just um unstructured uh
uh extra um extra verbiage around a request that
I just gave my example or it could be
specific markers of politeness that indicate the status relationships.
And these are grammatical or morphology and in quite
a number of languages, um you know, they used
to be in English, they are still to a
certain extent in, in romance languages where you have
formal, informal, distinguish uh distinguished by the morphology, but
they're much more complex politeness marking systems and a
wide variety of other languages. Uh So, so you
get those, those sorts of, of markers that can
differ. Um But you also get really big differences
in the norms in some cultures. It's very annoying
to ask very slowly and beat around the bush
and, and be indirect and in some cultures, it's
absolutely critical and, and a marker of respect. So,
the collaborator that I worked with on this Erica
Yon was from Korea and she had this really
interesting experience studying um Korean politeness versus politeness in
the US. And then her third comparison was in
India. So uh she, she was studying this task
where we say, um you know, uh Adam has
written a poem and he doesn't know how good
the poem is. So he asks Betty, uh what
did you think of my poem? And Betty actually
thinks the poem was terrible as an example, by
the way. Um uh That's uh from JF Boon
originally. We, we adapted it. So OK, Betty is
in this dilemma. She thinks the poem is terrible.
Does she tell him the poem is terrible or
does she, uh, prevaricate a little bit? Say it
was not bad or does she lie and say
it was great? And when we start to query
people's intuitions about this cross culturally, uh, you know,
the Americans, I think typically go with some sort
of prevarication is, you know, uh, not bad. Yeah,
it's ok. Uh OH, you know, it's, uh, some
people liked it, something like this. I, we actually
got some of our Indian participants saying, well, it's,
it's uh kind of impolite or, or not, right
to hold back how bad the poem is because
it's gonna hurt Adam in the end. So, um
you know, Betty really needs to share what's true
about the poem in order to help him. And
that's, that's how you are most helpful. Um The
Korean participants were much more on the side of
being polite about the poem and not sharing the
true uh information about it. So that's just a
tiny little example but, but resonated with us because
it felt like it related to these sort of
more general cultural norms that you see. I, I
remember um, a, a Dutch person was, was visiting
my lab at the time we were doing this
research and she heard this presentation and she said,
now I understand my own culture. It's totally impolite
to withhold direct information. If you had information. How
could you not share it? Yeah. So
yeah. No, no, that's really fascinating. And I mentioned
Korea there and I'm somewhat familiar with the Japanese
culture, for example, and they have one very specific
thing there. I'm not sure if in other cultures,
you also find it. But for example, if someone
compliments you uh I mean in Portugal and in
the US, you would just say something like thank
you, you so nice, something like that. But for
example, there just to give a very specific example,
if they complement your shoes, you're supposed to say,
oh the they they're not that great. Come on.
So I mean, they don't like people that brag
at all. And so it's not only a thank
you, it's oh they're nothing special. I mean, so
there, there is that, for example, um so getting
into another topic, uh tell us about how you
use and now I'm asking you specifically about some
of the methodology you use in your studies, how
you use eye tracking and head mounted cameras to
study children's early social and visual environment. So tell
us about that and then I will ask some
follow up questions.
Yeah, I, so I've always been fascinated by uh
the possibility of using different methods to reveal new
ways of looking at the uh the human mind,
especially uh when you're talking about very young Children.
So with adults, there is a lot you can
do. It's not perfect. But, but, but it as
a well designed behavioral task can really reveal a
tremendous amount about cognition, especially in the moment you
can, you know, ask an adult to perform a
complex task many times and really get a good
sense of how they make a particular inference when
you're studying learning. And especially when you're studying learning
in small Children, you have a much more limited
behavioral repertoire that you're able to look at. And
you're also often interested in the environment of learning.
And so those two needs have led developmental lists
to get more creative in terms of the particular
measures they use to study the learning environment and
the consequences of learning. So I got excited about
eye tracking uh by working in Scott Johnson's lab
actually as a research assistant after college. So this
is 20 odd years ago and Scott was very
interested in infant development and he really felt like
you could learn a lot about early infancy by
looking at eye movements. Um BECAUSE that was part
of the infants behavioral repertoire, they were relatively good
at. You could get multiple observations of where they
would look on a stimulus or how they would
predict an outcome uh by looking at their eye
movements. And that rich measure really could reveal much
more than say uh a kind of gross motor
behavior like a reach um or even just a
um something like a single looking time, which is
more commonly used. So I got excited about eye
tracking because of that. And I spent a bunch
of years really studying dynamics of eye movements in,
in young Children and how they uh modulated their,
their eye movements in different social scenes. That line
of research led me to think, well, you know,
it would be really nice to know what their
social input was. So if, if we think of
their social uh preferences and their social inferences as
stemming from some kind of learning, what, what are
they learning from? Uh WHEN we see, you know,
a preference for looking at faces or a preference
for looking at hands in certain situations is that
because they're looking at a lot of hands and
faces is that because the faces and hands are
informative in some way. So I started getting excited
about this method that was pioneered by a bunch
of folks, Linda Smith, um Chen Yu, um Karen
Adolf and others where you stick a camera, uh
sometimes an eye tracker, but at least a camera
on the child's head and you measure their visual
environment. And as I was setting up my lab,
I started playing with this and it, it was
very exciting to see the child's own viewpoint on
the social world because it looked pretty different than
what I had hypothesized. You know, I was showing
kids videos that looked like, you know, youtube videos,
maybe focused for kids. But basically, you know, like
kind of third person static perspectives. And when you
looked at the first person perspective, uh hands were
huge in the field of view. They were, you
know, kind of coming in from nowhere and putting
an object in the child's uh field of view.
They weren't seeing that many faces because they're down
on the ground and the faces are way up
above them and so forth. And so I started
uh working with folks in my lab to build
different kinds of head mounted cameras and try to
capture what Children are experiencing. Uh This resulted in
a, a longitudinal study called C CAM, where we
made a corpus of children's early visual experience that's
been really fun to work with uh for machine
learning and computer vision researchers because it documents uh
the changing perspective and social input over the course
of several years for a couple of kids. And
we're currently doing a, a much larger version of
this called the baby View project where we're tracking
uh quite a number of kids with a baby
gopro rigs, basically trying to get this high resolution,
you know, high quality video of what they're experiencing
in their social world.
And uh what do you think this kind of
methodology can add to developmental psychology that perhaps other
more traditional ways of studying child development wouldn't uh
give
us well, when we're talking about cognitive and linguistic
development, we're talking about things that are happening inside
the head that we can't observe and that's obvious.
But I think really critically important. And so when
we're trying to triangulate these latent abilities, we really
need to bring a bunch of information to bear
on that, especially when we're talking about learning and
language. Uh WE need to know what the child
is learning from their learning environment and their learning
input. We need to characterize the dynamics of how
they process that information in the moment. And eye
tracking can be really helpful for that. And then
we need to look at the long term large
scale outcome. What have they learned? What's their vocabulary
look like? What's their linguistic ability look like more
broadly? So if you just have one of those
pieces of information, you don't have enough to really
pin down what the nature of the learning process
is. Um But in order to characterize the system,
you, you, you want all of those different pieces
of information and that's gonna require uh some methodological
innovation.
Mhm So to get into the final topic of
our conversation today, you've also studied a little bit
of parenting attitude. So where do parenting attitudes come
from?
That's a, that's a very hard one. So I'll
start with something a little little easier, which is
that one of the other discoveries that we made
when we looked at children's um language across different
cultures uh was that there was something else that
was consistent beyond the, the tight woven that I
was referring to earlier and that was variability in
every culture we looked at kids were very different
with respect to their path and trajectory into language.
Some kids were going faster, some kids were going
slower. Some kids were learning more grammar, other kids
were learning more single vocabulary items. That voca that
variability is fascinating to people studying early language. And
one of the big goals of early language research
is to get a handle on it, try to
understand its socio-economic roots. It's um genetic roots, it's
uh the environmental roots and so forth. And so
measuring language input as we were talking about, you
know, using recordings or head mounted cameras is important
there. Uh BUT it's also important to try to
get a sense of what kind of home environment
the child is in. And so hence an interest
in parenting attitudes and uh folks um theories of
what it means to parent or interact with, with
kids. So that, that, that was the broad motivation
for studying parenting attitudes. Uh Many people have, have
studied parenting from a lot of different lenses. We,
we developed a questionnaire on this as, as one
entry into this much broader, more complex space. And
are, you know, I I an earlier observation, I
made kind of motivates this, there are some cultures
that where you get a real deep focus on
kids and their development and providing them with really,
you know, um educational opportunities even before school. And
there are other cultures where you don't see that
as much. And so we were interested in measuring
cultural and also individual variation on that dimension. Do
parents think it's their job to teach their kids
or the kids supposed to mostly be learning to
be respectful and, you know, kind of good members
of the community and it's not about teaching them
words or teaching them the precursors of math or
reading to them and so forth. So, uh that
was the goal of our parenting attitude questionnaire. And,
and we did find some evidence for individual variation
on this dimension. Um And of course, folks around
the world are interested in, in parenting variation. So
we've gotten a lot of uptick people translating these
questionnaires and using them in different places. Uh I,
I think it's too soon to say whether we
know what the universal dimensions of parenting are. That's,
that's a pretty uh strong um kind of set
of claims. But, but we're starting to understand that,
that there are these some dimensions of variation that
are important across a couple of cultures.
But even if we don't still have that understanding
about those dimensions of attitude and how they vary
cross culturally. Do we have any idea about where
uh parenting attitudes come from?
Um I was dodging that question because it's hard.
I it's, yeah, it, so culture, right. So um
we have a broad complex of cultural ideas about
what parents do and what parents role is. Uh
And in the US, especially, but also in Europe,
to a certain extent, we have, you know, as
Alison Gopnik and others have written about um we've
come to this idea that parenting is an active
activity that we engage in. And it's part of
a process of concerted cultivation of our kids for
success. And that's quite different than an alternative theory
where maybe uh you have to take care of
your kids and it's important to teach them respect.
But then the kind of education uh and formation
of the kids is part of the educational system,
for example, you send them somewhere. So uh those
two different mindsets uh seem like they're kind of
culturally ingrained and have emerged, you know, uh especially
in the US over the post war period or,
you know, social mobility desires for kind of uh
increased engagement, um decreasing birth rates, there's a kind
of a whole set of, you know, important cultural
dynamics that lead to us, us to value the
outcomes of individual kids, especially in, you know, middle
and higher ses families.
Mhm. Uh And so one last question, then do
we know if beliefs about parenting attitudes actually translate
into parenting behaviors
that I think we're at early days for understanding
exactly how that happens. So it's clear that uh
you know, at the, at the edges like the,
the more extreme cases, uh there are real differences
in the ways that parents act, they, in terms
of, you know, the language that they produce for
kids, but also the, the kinds of, um I
amount of engagement and the richness of the the
home environment. Um THE amount that parents are preparing
their kids for an educational path versus the amount
that they're feeling their responsibility, more cultural to pass
on cultural traditions versus the amount they're engaging at
all. Uh So, so it's clear that, you know,
from that perspective, from an intuitive perspective, attitudes are
translating into action. How much does our questionnaire particularly
measure that? Well, we did a little bit of
initial validity work to try to uh test whether
parents reports of their attitudes matched parents reports of
their actual activities and, and they did, but really
validating uh in the most, you know, thorough way
to really understand whether parents implicit theories of what
it means to be a parent, really translate day
to day into their observed actions and behaviors. I
think that work, you know, uh from a measurement
perspective still needs to be ongoing.
Mhm. So Doctor Frank, just before we go, would
you like to tell people where they can find
you and your work on the internet?
Oh, thanks for the opportunity. Yeah. Yeah. So if,
if folks want to engage more um I Twitter
or X as it's now called, have become a
really good platform for engaging with scientists. And I,
I do try to engage there. It's a lot
of fun. Um Also uh if you're interested in
any of the resources that we create, because that's,
that's very much what, what we do is create
open resources for studying child development. I encourage you
to take a look at our labs website, Lang
cog.stanford.edu um which provides links to some of the
studies and resources that I've described, including Word Bank,
um which you can Google uh word bank.stanford.edu. Uh
And that's, that's a really fun resource for exploring
child language. And uh so, so encourage you to,
to take a look at all of those platforms
and, and play with some of the uh tools
and data sets that we've created.
Great. So I'm leaving links to that in the
description box of this interview and thank you so
much again for taking the time to come on
the show. It's been a pleasure to talk to
you.
Thanks so much for all your questions.
Hi guys. Thank you for watching this interview. Until
the end. If you like what I'm doing, please
share the interview, leave a like a comment and
if you can please support me on Patreon or
paypal, you can find the links in down in
the description box. Just $1 per month would already
be a great help. The show is brought to
you by N Lights New Link and development and
differently check their website at N lights.com. And I
would also like to give a huge thank you
to my main patrons and Paypal supporters, Bugger Larson
Jerry Mueller and Frederick Sunda Bernards, Olaf, Alex Adam
Castle Matthew Whittenburg, Arno Wolf, Tim Hollis, Erica L
John Connors Philip for Connolly. Then the Met Robert
Wine in Mark Nevs Colin Holbrook, Simon Columbus, Phil,
Kavana, Mikel Stormer, Samuel Andrea Francis for Agns Fergal
Ken Hall, Herzog, Michal Jonathan Lab JL and TK
Eric Heins, Mark Smith J we Tom Hummel s
friends. David Sloan Wilson. Y are Rin Roach Diego,
Yanni Punter, Amani Charlotte, Bli Nico bear hunt, Pao
Stassi Nele Bach go Guy Madison, Gary G Alman,
Samo, Zal Ari and Yi Paulin. Jean Borba, Julian
Price Edward Hall, Eden Bruner Douglas Fry Franca Beto
Lotti Gabriel Pan Cortez, Orli Scott Zachary Fish, Tim
Duff and Smith. John Wiesman, Daniel Friedman, William Buckner,
Paul Giorgio, Luke Loi Georges, Theo Chris Williamson, Peter.
Walla David Williams Diogo Costa Anton Erickson, Charles Moray,
Alex Shaw, Amari Martinez, Coralie Chevalier, Bangalore atheists Larry
Daley, Junior, Old Ebon, Starry Michael Bailey. Then Spur
by Robert Grassy Igor and Jeff mcmahon, Jake Zweel
Barnabas Radick, Mark Kemple Thomas Dauber, Luke Neeson, Chris
story, Kimberly Johnson, Benjamin Gilbert Jessica Nowicki Linda Brandon
Nicholas Carlson, Ismael Benz Leman Georges, Gois Valentin Steinman,
Perra Kate Von Goler, Alexander Hubbard, Liam Dunaway Biard
and Masoud Ali Mohammadi. A special thanks to my
producers. These are Webb Jim Franks Lueen, Tom Ween
Bernard Dini Ortiz Dixon Benedict Mueller Thomas Trumble, Catherine
and Patrick Tobin, John Carlo Montenegro, Al Nick Ortiz
and Nick Golden. And to my executive producers, Matthew
Lavender, Si Adrian Bogdan Knit and VG. Thank you
for all.